Appendix A Summary of guidelines
Rule 1.1
Required - C Syntax violation
Rule 1.2
Advisory - Language extensions should not be used.
Rule 1.3
No text specified
Rule 1.4
Required - Emergent language features shall not be used.
Rule 2.1
Required - A project shall not contain unreachable code.
Rule 2.2
Required - A project shall not contain dead code.
Rule 2.3
Advisory - All defined types must be used. IE No unused types should be defined.
Rule 2.4
Advisory - A project should not contain unused tag declarations.
Rule 2.5
Advisory - Macro declared but not used
Rule 2.6
Advisory - A function should not contain unused label declarations.
Rule 2.7
Advisory - All function parameters must be used
Rule 2.8
Advisory - A project should not contain unused object definitions.
Rule 3.1
Required - /* and // cannot used within a comment (ie No nested comments)
Rule 3.2
Required - Line-splicing shall not be used in // comments.
Rule 4.1
Required - Octal and hexadecimal escape sequences shall be terminated.
Rule 4.2
Advisory - Trigraphs should not be used.
Rule 5.1
Required - External identifiers shall be distinct.
Rule 5.2
Required - Identifiers declared in the same scope and name space shall be distinct.
Rule 5.3
Required - An identifier (variable) in an outer scope shall not be redfined within an inner scope
Rule 5.4
Required - Macro names must be unique
Rule 5.5
Required - Identifiers shall be distinct from macro names.
Rule 5.6
Required - A typedef name shall be a unique identifier.
Rule 5.7
Required - A tag name shall be a unique identifier.
Rule 5.8
Required - All identifiers must be unique
Rule 5.9
Advisory - Identifiers that define objects or functions with internal linkage should be unique.
Rule 6.1
Required - Bit-fields shall only be declared with an appropriate type.
Rule 6.2
Required - Single-bit named bit fields shall not be of a signed type.
Rule 6.3
Required - A bit field shall not be declared as a member of a union.
Rule 7.1
Required - Octal constants shall not be used.
Rule 7.2
Required - All unsigned integer constants must have a 'u' or 'U' suffix
Rule 7.3
Required - The lowercase character "l" shall not be used in a literal suffix.
Rule 7.4
Required - A string literal shall not be assigned to an object unless the object's type is "pointer to const-qualified char".
Rule 7.5
Mandatory - Required - The argument of an integer constant macro shall have an appropriate form.
Rule 8.1
Required - Types shall be explicitly specified.
Rule 8.2
Required - Function prototypes must have named parameters or void if none
Rule 8.3
Required - All declarations of an object or function shall use the same names and type qualifiers.
Rule 8.4
Required - A compatible declaration shall be visible when an object or function with external linkage is defined.
Rule 8.5
Required - An object or function must only be declared once
Rule 8.6
Required - Externally identified object must be defined once and only once (Object has not been defined or was defined in multiple places)
Rule 8.7
Advisory - Objects and functions should only be made available externally if required
Rule 8.8
Required - The static storage class specifier shall be used in all declarations of objects and functions that have internal linkage.
Rule 8.9
Advisory - An object should be declared at block scope if its identifier only appears in a single function.
Rule 8.10
Required - All inline functions should be declared static
Rule 8.11
Advisory - Externally available arrays must have an explicitely declared size
Rule 8.12
Required - Within a n enumerator list, the value of an implicitly-specified enumeration constant shall be unique.
Rule 8.13
Advisory - A pointer should point to a const-qualified type whenever possible.
Rule 8.14
Required - The restrict type qualifier shall not be used.
Rule 8.15
Required - All declarations of an object with an explicit alignment specification shall specify the same alignment.
Rule 8.16
Advisory - The alignment specification of zero should not appear in an object declaration.
Rule 8.17
Advisory - At most one explicit alignment specifier should appear in an object declaration.
Rule 9.1
Mandatory - The value of an object with automatic storage duration shall not be read before it has been set.
Rule 9.2
Required - The initializer for an aggregate or union shall be enclosed in braces.
Rule 9.3
Required - Arrays shall not be partially initialized.
Rule 9.4
Required - An element of an object shall not be initialized more than once.
Rule 9.5
Required - Where designated initializers are used to initialize an array object the size of the array shall be specified explicitly.
Rule 9.6
Required - An initializer using chained designators shall not contain initializers without designators.
Rule 9.7
Mandatory - Atomic objects shall be appropriately initialized before being accessed.
Rule 10.1
Required - Operations must be of an essentially correct type (Eg no shift on signed values, comparison is not boolean, incrementing/decrementing a bool etc).
Rule 10.2
Required - Expressions of essentially character type shall not be used inappropriately in addition and subtraction operation.
Rule 10.3
Required - The value from an expression must only be assigned to an object with the same or larger essential type
Rule 10.4
Required - Both operands of an operator in which the usual arithmetic conversions are performed shall have the same essential type category.
Rule 10.5
Advisory - The value of an expression should not be cast to an inappropriate essential type.
Rule 10.6
Required - An expression should not assign a value to a variable of a narrower or essentially different type
Rule 10.7
Required - If a composite expression is used as one operand of an operator in which the usual arithmetic conversions are performed then the other operand shall not have wider essential type.
Rule 10.8
Required - A composite expression value should not be cast to a wider type or a different essential type
Rule 11.1
Required - Conversions shall not be performed between a pointer to a function and any other type.
Rule 11.2
Required - Conversions shall not be performed between a pointer to an incomplete type and any other type.
Rule 11.3
Required - A cast shall not be performed between a pointer to object type and a pointer to a different object type
Rule 11.4
Advisory - Object pointers should not be treated as or converted to integers
Rule 11.5
Advisory - A void pointer should not be converted to an object pointer
Rule 11.6
Required - A cast shall not be performed between pointer to void and an arithmetic type.
Rule 11.7
Required - A cast shall not be performed between pointer to object and a non-integer arithmetic type.
Rule 11.8
Required - A conversion shall not remove any const, volatile or _Atomic qualification from the type pointed to by a pointer.
Rule 11.9
Required - An integer null pointer shall have no value assigned other than NULL macro
Rule 12.1
Advisory - Order of operations within an expression must be explicit. Multiple conditions in a logical operation should have brackets around them.
Rule 12.2
Required - Right hand side of a shift operation must not exceed the width of the essential value. Potential shift too far or negative shift.
Rule 12.3
Advisory - The comma operator is not permitted.
Rule 12.4
Advisory - Evaluation of constant expressions should not lead to unsigned integer wrap-around.
Rule 12.5
Mandatory - The sizeof operator shall not have an operand which is a function parameter declared as "array of type".
Rule 12.6
Required - Structure and union members of atomic objects shall not be directly accessed.
Rule 13.1
Required - Initializer lists shall not contain persistent side effects.
Rule 13.2
Required - The value of an expression and its persistent side effects shall be the same under all permitted evaluation orders and shall be independent from thread interleaving.
Rule 13.3
Advisory - A full expression containing an increment (++) or decrement (--) operator should have no other potential side effects other than that caused by the increment or decrement operator.
Rule 13.4
Advisory - Assignment operation should not be used in an expression (Check for = when == should have been used)
Rule 13.5
Required - The right hand operand of a logical && or || operator shall not contain persistent side effects.
Rule 13.6
Mandatory - The operand of the sizeof operator shall not contain any expression which has potential side effects.
Rule 14.1
Required - A loop counter shall not have essentially floating type.
Rule 14.2
Required - A for loop shall be well-formed.
Rule 14.3
Required - Controlling expressions shall not be invariant.
Rule 14.4
Required - Non-Boolean type expression used in an if statement or the conditional iteration statement of a loop
Rule 15.1
Advisory - The goto statement should not be used.
Rule 15.2
Required - The goto statement shall jump to a label declared later in the same function.
Rule 15.3
Required - Any label referenced by a goto statement shall be declared in the same block, or in any block enclosing the goto statement.
Rule 15.4
Advisory - There should be no more than one break or goto statement used to terminate any iteration statement.
Rule 15.5
Advisory - A function should only have a single return point
Rule 15.6
Required - Loops, switch and if/else statements must have brackets around their body
Rule 15.7
Required - 'else if' statements must terminate with a final 'else'
Rule 16.1
Required - All switch statements shall be well formed.
Rule 16.2
Required - A switch label shall only be used when the most closely-enclosing compound statement is the body of a switch statement.
Rule 16.3
Required - All cases within switches must have an unconditional break statement
Rule 16.4
Required - All switch statements must have a default case
Rule 16.5
Required - A default label shall appear as either the first or the last switch label of a switch statement.
Rule 16.6
Required - Every switch statement shall have at least two switch clauses.
Rule 16.7
Required - A switch expression shall not have an essentially Boolean type.
Rule 17.1
Required - The standard header file shall not be used.
Rule 17.2
Required - Functions shall not call themselves, either directly or indirectly
Rule 17.3
Mandatory - A function shall not be declared implicitly.
Rule 17.4
Mandatory - All exit paths from a function with non-void return type shall have an explicit return statement with an expression.
Rule 17.5
Advisory - The function argument corresponding to a parameter declared to have an array type shall have an appropriate number of elements.
Rule 17.6
Mandatory - The declaration of an array parameter shall not contain the static keyword between the [].
Rule 17.7
Required - The value returned by a function having non-void return type shall be used
Rule 17.8
Advisory - An argument to a function should be treated as read-only
Rule 18.1
Required - A pointer resulting from arithmetic on a pointer operand shall address an elements of the same array as that pointer operand.
Rule 18.2
Required - Subtraction between pointers shall only be applied to pointers that address elements of the same array.
Rule 18.3
Required - The relational operators >, >=, < and <= shall not be applied to expressions of pointer type except where they point into the same object.
Rule 18.4
Advisory - The +, -, += and -= operators should not be applied to an expression of pointer type
Rule 18.5
Advisory - Declarations should contain no more than two levels of pointer nesting.
Rule 18.6
Required - The address of an object with automatic or thread-local storage shall not be copied to another object that persists after the first object has ceased to exist.
Rule 18.7
Required - Flexible array members shall not be declared.
Rule 18.8
Required - Variable-length arrays shall not be used.
Rule 19.1
Mandatory - An object shall not be assigned or copied to an overlapping object.
Rule 19.2
Advisory - The union keyword should not be used.
Rule 20.1
Advisory - Only comments and prepropccesor directives can come before #include statements
Rule 20.2
Required - The ', " or \ characters and the /* or // character sequences shall not occur in a header file name.
Rule 20.3
Required - #include statements must be followed by a filename
Rule 20.4
Required - A macro shall not be defined with the same name as a keyword.
Rule 20.5
Advisory - Use of #undef is not permitted
Rule 20.6
Required - Tokens that look like a preprocessing directive shall not occur within a macro argument.
Rule 20.7
Required - Macro expressions and parameters must be enclosed in parentheses
Rule 20.8
Required - The controlling expression of a #if or #elif preprocessing directive shall evaluate to 0 or 1.
Rule 20.9
Required - All identifiers used in the controlling expression of #if or #elif preprocessing directives shall be #define'd before evaluation.
Rule 20.10
Advisory - The # and ## preprocessor operators should not be used.
Rule 20.11
Required - A macro parameter immediately following a # operator shall not immediately be followed by a ## operator.
Rule 20.12
Required - A macro parameter used as an operand to the # or ## operators, which is itself subject to further macro replacement, shall only be used as an operand to these operators.
Rule 20.13
Required - A line whose first token is # shall be a valid preprocessing directive.
Rule 20.14
Required - All #else, #elif and #endif preprocessor directives shall reside in the same file as the #if, #ifdef or #ifndef directive to which they are related.
Rule 21.1
Required - #define and #undef shall not be used on a reserved identifier or reserved macro name.
Rule 21.2
Required - A reserved identifier or macro name shall not be declared.
Rule 21.3
Required - Memory allocation functions (Eg malloc(), talloc() etc) shall not be used
Rule 21.4
Required - The standard header file shall not be used.
Rule 21.5
Required - The standard header file shall not be used.
Rule 21.6
Required - The Standard Library input/output functions shall not be used.
Rule 21.7
Required - The Standard Library functions atof, atoi, atol and atoll of shall not be used.
Rule 21.8
Required - Termination functions from stdlib (Eg exit, abort etc) shall not be used.
Rule 21.9
Required - The Standard Library functions bsearch and qsort of shall not be used.
Rule 21.10
Required - The Standard Library time and date functions shall not be used.
Rule 21.11
Advisory - The standard header file should not be #included.
Rule 21.12
Required - The standard header file shall not be used.
Rule 21.13
Mandatory - Any value passed to a function in shall be representable as an unsigned char or be the value EOF.
Rule 21.14
Required - The Standard Library function memcmp shall not be used to compare null terminated strings.
Rule 21.15
Required - The pointer arguments to the Standard Library functions memcpy, memmove and memcmp shall be pointers to qualified or unqualified versions of compatible types.
Rule 21.16
Required - The pointer arguments to the Standard Library function memcmp shall point to either a pointer type, an essentially signed type, an essentially unsigned type, an essentially Boolean type or an essentially enum type.
Rule 21.17
Mandatory - Use of the string handling functions from shall not result in accesses beyond the bounds of the objects referenced by their pointer parameters.
Rule 21.18
Mandatory - The size_t argument passed to any function in shall have an appropriate value.
Rule 21.19
Mandatory - The pointers returned by the Standard Library functions localeconv, getenv, setlocale or, strerror shall only be used as if they have pointer to const-qualified type.
Rule 21.20
Mandatory - The pointer returned by the Standard Library functions asctime, ctime, gmtime, localtime, localeconv, getenv, setlocale or strerror shall not be used following a subsequent call to the same function.
Rule 21.21
Required - The Standard Library function system of shall not be used.
Rule 22.1
Required - All resources obtained dynamically by means of Standard Library functions shall be explicitly released.
Rule 22.2
Mandatory - A block of memory shall only be freed if it was allocated by means of a Standard Library function
Rule 22.3
Required - The same file shall not be open for read and write access at the same time on different streams
Rule 22.4
Mandatory - There shall be no attempt to write to a stream which has been opened as read-only.
Rule 22.5
Mandatory - A pointer to a FILE object shall not be dereferenced.
Rule 22.6
Mandatory - The value of a pointer to a FILE shall not be used after the associated stream has been closed.
Rule 22.7
Required - The macro EOF shall only be compared with the unmodified return value from any Standard Library function capable of returning EOF.
Rule 22.8
Required - The value of errno shall be set to zero prior to a call to an errno-setting-function.
Rule 22.9
Required - The value of errno shall be tested against zero after calling an errno-setting-function.
Rule 22.10
Required - The value of errno shall only be tested when the last function to be called was an errno-setting-function.
